
			DNSSEC-Tools Configuration File

The DNSSEC-Tools configuration file contains site-wide configuration
information used by the DNSSEC-Tools commands.

Configuration entries have the following format:

	field	value

For example, the default encryption algorithm and KSK length may be
specified in this manner:

	algorithm	rsasha1
	ksklen		2048


Changing the values of the configuration entries is straightforward
enough, as they can be changed using a generic text editor.  Adding
new fields, however, is a bit more complex.  The files listed below
must be modified in the manner described for each.

etc/dnssec/dnssec-tools.conf

	This file is the prototype configuration file.  New fields
	must be added here, along with a value and a brief description.
	The installed configuration file must be changed separately or
	be installed from this copy.

etc/dnssec/dnssec-tools.conf.pm

	This file is the Perl documentation describing the contents of
	the configuration file.  A description must be added to the
	"Configuration Records" section.  A sample entry should be added
	to the "Example File" section.

modules/defaults.pm

	This module contains default values for the DNSSEC-Tools commands.
	A field/value entry must be added to the %defaults hash.
	The field name must be added to the @defnames array.
	A description of the field must be added to the "DEFAULT FIELDS"
	section of the pod.

modules/tooloptions.pm

	This module contains options shared by many of the DNSSEC-Tools
	commands.  An entry for the field should be added to the @stdopts
	array.  These options must be in the Getopt::GUI::Long format.

scripts/dtconfchk

	This script performs validity and consistency checks on the
	configuration file.  Appropriate checks for the new value
	should be added.  A description of the checks should be added
	to the "DESCRIPTION" section of the pod.

scripts/dtinitconf

	This script creates new configuration files based on command-line
	options and the DNSSEC-Tools defaults.  Follow the model of other
	options to create a command-line option and to provide for a
	default value.  A description of the new option should be added
	to the appropriate section of the pod.
